## Rumuneration report
Since 1 January 2023, Swiss foundations are obliged to disclose to the competent supervisory authority the total amount of compensation paid annually whether directly or indirectly to the board and any management members (art. 84b CC, in force since 1 January 2023). Although supervisory authorities have occasionally requested such information in recent years, the new provision now obliges all foundations to produce a remuneration report (irrespective of whether they are supervised by the federal, cantonal or municipal supervisory authority).

The obligation to produce a remuneration report sheds new light on the controversial question of the appropriate remuneration of board members of charitable foundations. From a legal point of view, appropriate remunerations are permissible. There is no threshold for remunerations per se according to widely accepted practice, but factors such as the foundation‘s capital, the complexity of the administration, the expertise of the board member etc. need to be taken into consideration to evaluate whether a remuneration is appropriate.

However, the remuneration of board members can be viewed differently when it comes to the recognition of a foundation as charitable for tax purposes: While the tax exemption of charitable organisations is subject to only a few provisions at a federal level, the practices of cantonal tax authorities vary widely. For instance, some rather restrictive cantonal authorities perceive the payment of compensations to board members as detrimental to the altruistic characteristics of charitable foundations, whereas others do not. Since the supervisory authority and the cantonal tax authorities are distinct authorities, the remuneration report does not itself have any tax implications and is not passed on to the tax authorities. However, charitable foundations should review whether the remuneration of their board members is (still) in line with the principles laid out in the tax ruling granting the foundation the status of being a charity for tax purposes.

Some details regarding the remuneration report are as yet unclear, e.g., whether the report needs to contain the total amount of the remuneration paid to all members of the board and the management (as indicated by the wording of art. 84b CC) or whether the remuneration of each member must be reported separately (as would indicate art. 734a para. 3 Swiss Code of Obligations applicable to stock companies by analogous application). The Federal Supervisory Authority recently issued a guideline in which it requests the disclosure of the individual remuneration of each board member.
